# CS241

## Intro to Operating Systems

### Roles of an OS
#### Definition
> An OS is loosely defined to be software acting as an intermediary between the user and the hardware of a device.

The OS is responsible for allocating hardware resources (Such as I/O) to user processes, so that users can control their execution.

The OS acts as a method of prevention against errors and failures that may occur (such as memory clashes).

The OS is responsible for processes such as:
- **User program execution** (such as MS Teams)
- **I/O operations** (This makes it more efficient by abstracting I/O from the user **and** is more secure due to the usage of interrupts and drivers).
- **Resource Allocation** (Controls priority of processes by performing CPU scheduling and memory management).
- **File System Management** (read/write/append operations)
- **Comms between processes**
- **Error Handling** (Hardware failure and process errors).
- **Accounting** (SysAdmin)
- **Security**

### Kernel

#### Definition

> The Kernel is the core of an OS. It runs at all times on a computer and solely manages serveral functions, such as memory management and process scheduling.

The **Kernel Space** is seperate from user processes. It is protected for security reasons.

For a user to access the kernel space, a **System Call** must be invoked. System calls provide a consistent interface for common operations.

For the system to distinguish between kernel operations and user operations, the hardware operates in **Dual Mode**. The hardware uses a **Mode Bit**, either 0 or 1, to indicate kernel or user mode.

Some OS instructions **can only be executed** in Kernel mode.

### OS Structures

Early OSs had simple structures where all functionality was built into the kernel. This was defined as a **monolithic kernel**. This makes debugging difficult but reduces overhead in system calls.

Operating Systems typically did not have well defined structures.

This led to a layered approach, with the **core** layer being the hardware and the **outer** layer the user. Layers communicate with adjacent layers.

> Pros: Makes debugging easier due to a clearer interface.
> Cons: No real consensus to layer design and creates bloat for system calls.

#### Microkernels

Microkernels allow for a smaller kernel by defining non-essential processes as system or user processes. Examples may be file access systems and device drivers.

> Pros: Security and reliability.
> Cons: Reduces efficiency of the system due to system call overhead.
